#summary Preliminary Design Document for the "Parasite Game".
#labels Phase-Requirements,Phase-Implementation,Phase-QA
_Anthony Massingham, Ben Kenny : July 2008_
_v1, 05/07/08_

= Introduction =

Introduction goes here.  Include Title, Genre, Direction, Setting, Direction, Edge and Platform.  Sell Concept in One Sentence.  Keep Short.

= Basic Concept / Description =
Basic Concept.  Few Paragraphs / Page.  Describe game to readers as if they are players ( ie. you ).  Narrative of Game Experience.  Avoid mentioning GUI Specifics

= Key Features =
Key Game Features.  List of items which separates game from the pack. Summary of features alluded to in description.


= Schedule and Milestones = 

 * Constantly changing.

= Genre =

 * 2D Platformer

= Platform = 
 * Minimum requirements: Windows XP/Vista, .Net runtime, XNA runtime. Video card capable of pixel shader 1.1
 * Possibly 360 in the future

= Detailed Concept =
===The Character===
Parasite Assassin

===The Goals===
  * Parasite Assassin hired to kill multiple people ? Game spent in a series of bodies ( including external sequences getting from one body to another ).
  * Parasite Assassin hired to kill multiple people ? Game spent in a series of bodies, not all are targets, some are needed to get from one body to another ( use as a host, then transfer to new body ).

`Comment By Ben : Multiple people could be used as difficulty level? A mega fat, unhealthy person has more cholestorol, less body defences and slower moving blood (easy). A super healthy athlete has the opposite`
`Comment By Anthony : Possible.  I am very iffy when it comes to 'difficulty levels'.  They have to be done correctly, and not just changing some variables here and there.  The multiple body idea was more of a 'progressive' thing : Possibly to try and introduce some sort of narrative`

`Comment By Ben : Where does the player find cholesterol from? is it a blob in the  stomach? Is it scaped off veins/arteries? Does the player have to collect a certain amount?`
 * Possibilities : 
  * Some Brought in from outside. 
  * Some Collected from Internal Sources ( Scraped / Collected ). 
  * Player must maintain a certain amount throughout the levels ( similar to 'number of survivors' in lemmings - Must carry a certain amount from one level to another

`Comment By Ben : What are the end game (losing and winning) conditions?`
 * Loss of Cholesterol, Player Character Destroyed`
 * Cholesterol is both Resource , and Building Material ( to use RTS terms )

===Movement==
`Comment By Anthony : Have to think of alternate controls should we wish to switch over to xbox.  Left Analog Stick controlls left/right movement, right stick controls tail ?`

 * Movement controlled via arrow keys and mouse
  * Player can crawl on most floor surfaces, as well as some wall / roof surfaces
  * Player can swim in certain liquids, can only float on some others, and others are harmful
====Keyboard Control====
 * Left and Right keys control Left and Right Movement.
 * Caterpiller-like motion
 * Spacebar ( or similar key ) controls body 'rigidity'.
   * Rigidity is how 'stiff' the parasite is.  With spacebar not held, he moves and rotates freely ( within physical constraints ).  With Spacebar held, his body becomes rigid, and frozen in the current position it was.  Useful for 'spring like' movement mentioned in the next section.
====Mouse Control====
     * Mouse controls the tail.  Click and Drag to move the tail around
     * Movement speed, direction, and target dictate tail actions
      * Fast Movements through objects "cut" them.
       * Slow Movements into objects "injects" them.
       * Fast Movements in the air 'flicks' the parasite into the air
    * Complex Movement
     * Using a combination of the methods listed above, complex movements can be performed.  Such as :
      * SPRING MOVEMENT
       * Moving the tail and entire body into an upright position ( ie, head on ground, tail pointing straight up into the air ), activating rigitidy, then pulling down on the tail slowely and releasing creates a 'spring' movement, launching the parasite vertically up into the air - allowing the parasite to attach itself to the roof / wall / surface.
      * ROLLING MOVEMENT
       * Moving the tail around into a circle shape, activating rigidity, allows the parasite to roll himself into a ball and roll down hills. ( not sure on the usability of this yet ).

====The Tail====
 * Important asset.  Used to 'CUT', 'INJECT' and 'STAB'
  * CUT/SLICE
   * Used to cut cholesterol, blood vessels, veins.
  * INJECT
   * Used to inject positive bateria and viruses into various substances allowing for new abilities to be passed on ( abilities chosen by a radial menu ? Possibly kept under his hat ? )
  * STAB
   * Used to 'dig' / 'hack', also as a means of defence from the body's internal defences
  * RETRACTABLE ?
    * Possibility for retractable spike, so that the tail can be used to 'hit' things too ( ie, punch, mould etc ).

 * Too much cutting/stabbing/injecting will kill a host, so care must be taken to not kill him/her prematurely.

 * How this can be used ?
  # Blood Pumping forcefully through a vein, too fast to plug with normal cholesterol. 
  # You Inject a 'hardening' virus into a nearby blob of cholesterol, it becomes a solid mass
 # You then Slice off two sides of the cholesterol, turning it into a wedge shape
 # You then nudge the wedge into position ( using a combination of arrow key movement, and nudges with your tail
 # once in position, you spring yourself towards the wedge, knocking it into position, and blocking off the vein.

===The Allies===
 * Particular types of viruses and bacteria are allied with our Silent Assassin.  Can be collected, then injected into various items/walls/objects.  Having a differernt effect dependign on the item which is 'infected', and what it is 'infected' with.
 * Give qualities like :
  * Elasticity
  * Stickyness
  * Goopyness
  * Infectiousness / Multiplication ( produces various items )
  * Hardening
  * etc
===The Enemies===
 * The Body's defences.
 * Competing Viruses / Parasites
 * White Blood Cells etc.

===The Environment===
 * Inside a human(s) body.
 * Travelling through the bloodstream, stomach, lungs, heart, brain etc.
 * Variety of 'hosts', each with a particular way of defeating/eliminating them.